Metadata-Version: 2.1
Name: oxdnavmd
Version: 0.21
Summary: vmd support for oxdna trajectories
Home-page: https://github.com/WillTKaufhold1/will_oxdna_vmd
Author: Will T Kaufhold
Author-email: wtk23@cam.ac.uk
License: GPL
Description: # Will's oxDNA scripts for VMD
        https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/
        
        ## Stuff slightly broken at the moment; I would avoid using...
        
        ## Intro
        
        I wanted to integrate oxDNA visualization effectively into VMD. These are a collection of scripts that perform this integration. 
        
        The scripts here take an oxDNA .dat file, and generate a .xyz file and a .psf file. Locations of stacking (S) and phosphate repulsion (BB) sites are placed in the .xyz file, and bond connectivity is placed in the .psf file. Bond connectivity includes one bond between the S site and BB site,and a second bond between BB sites that are connected.
        
        There are also scripts here that extract energy profiles from simulation trajectories, and then colorcode nucleotides in VMD according to energy value. Specifically, nucleotides can be colored according to each the value of each energy component in the oxDNA force field. These components can be: 
        
        1. FENE : Finite extension non-linear elastic potential; backbone stretching. 
        1. BEXC : Backbone excluded volume
        1. STCK: Stacking energies
        1. NEXC: Excluded volume
        1. HB: Hydrogen bonding
        1. CRSTCK: Cross stacking
        1. CXSTACK: Coaxial stacking (i.e. encouraging helicity)
        1. DH: Debye-Huckel electrostatic repulsion
        1. total: total energy 
        
        ## Example rendered images
        
        
        ## Requirements
        
        In principle I designed these scripts to generate files for VMD. However, they may work with any other visualization toolkit that can read and .xyz and .psf file.
        
        Python scripts need Python>=3.5 with numpy and pandas 
        
        Generation of energy files require the (oxDNA) DNAnalysis package to be in PATH.
        
        And I've only tested this on Linux, although it should probably work on OSX as well.
        
        ## Instructions for use
        
        The general principle is to use DNAnalysis to generate an energy file detailing pairwise energies as a function of trajectory time, then use this energy file to construct a PSF. vmd can then read the PSF with which contains bond connectivity, and also read a converted xyz file which contains positional information. To trick vmd into color coding energies, the energy values are hidden in the charge attribute of the PSF. 
        
        In the src directory, running the RUN.sh followed by the location of the the trajectory file and topology file should generate the relevant PSF files and XYZ files. Since energy is also generated, the input file which was used to run oxDNA is also needed.
        
        The XYZ files are placed in 1.traj-xyz-generation directory, and the PSF files are placed in the 3.psf-generation directory.
        
        ## Example 
        
        The example trajectory contains a short trajectory, with relevant PSF files. To look at the HB energy distribution,  run "vmd traj-HB.psf test.xyz", which should load the molecule. Subsequently in the vmd visualization menu, the color by section should be set to charge. For each PSF, coloring by strand is also possible. To do this, change the color by section to resid.
        
        
        ## Implementation
        
        Everything is wrapped as a Python package, although scripts will also run independently. Bottlenecks in Python have been writted in C, with Python wrappers. 
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
Platform: UNKNOWN
Description-Content-Type: text/markdown
